1000 Deathclock in Paris is a collaborative project based on Deathclock, an artwork by contemporary artist Tatsuo Miyajima, with a special network and interface designed by graphic designer Hajime Tachibana.Today, individual privacy is defined digitally within the framework of an extensive societal information network in accordance with global digitalisation and the growth of society as a network.1000 Deathclock constructs a new network within the existing one, one that is driven by the individual participant’s own action, not by the theologic of generalized social control. The individual participant’s increasing awareness of “real life” forms the artwork once they start thinking about their own life, putting numbers to their life and death by setting up their own Deathclock.The graphic visualization of each individual's lifetime forms a universe and provides an opportunity for participants and viewers to think about the dignity of life.This work is accessible to everyone from all over the world through an online network. The artwork is located on the website and consists of the participant’s entry data which will be reflected and published to the world through the web simultaneously. Participants input their names, birthdays and the answer to the question “until what date do you want to live?”. The data is immediately transferred to the website and appears in the artwork as a personal name, lived time (expressed in 1/10 sec.) and time till death (counting down by 1/10 sec.). RFID* tags which link to self-entry information will be given to applicants at the exhibition site.A new local network is created when participants put their personal tag into the reader installed in the exhibition space. This action makes a connection to a global network and builds active art on the web as a part of the installation.Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) is a new discernment technology. These wireless AIDC systems allow non-contact reading and are effective in manufacturing and in hostile environments where barcode labels could not survive. This little micro tip with antenna has the potential to change our perception of networks.