Over the last six years, I have been combining computer-generated art with sculptural vehicles to transcend the monitor and achieve social metaphors that investigate issues of globalization.The Public Broadcast Cart, presented September 19th and 20th 2003 at City Hall Park, Manhattan, was part of a public art event entitled Wireless Park Lab Days. NYCwireless and the Downtown Alliance co-sponsored Wireless Park Lab Days, the two-day event celebrating the availability of open wireless (Wi-Fi) networks in Lower Manhattan and exploring their implications for art, the community, and shared space. As part of the event, I presented The Public Broadcast Cart (2003), a shopping cart outfitted with a microphone, speakers, amplifier, personal computer, and miniFM transmitter that enables any pedestrian to become an active producer of an audio broadcast. The cart reverses the usual role of the public as audience of radio broadcasts or online content. The audio stream is available to anyone online and logged onto THE THING’s net radio station. The audio is also simultaneously transmitted via speakers making the cart a temporary soap box for willing participants. The Public Broadcast Cart has been produced with support from the Franklin Furnace and THE THING, two not for profit arts organizations, with audio engineering by Jan McLaughlin.The issues that I confront through my work stem from personal experiences and observations; since an early age I was aware of my parent’s difficulties as immigrants struggling with a new language and culture. Growing up I spent my summers in Nicaragua and the school year in San Francisco. These two very different environments created considerable confusion in terms of my understanding of where I belong in the world and of human interaction in general—a sensibility that has extended into my artistic practice, which investigates the divisive nature of capitalism and the social tools used to establish hegemony.My work seeks to invert common tools of social control in order to create dialogue and critical perspectives and to inspire subjective action. The principle behind my work is twofold: to approach communication as a creative process and to investigate how economic realities construct not only the world we live in, but more importantly the lives we lead.