With the invention of the wheel a revolution was started, and echoes of this can be felt along the motorways. Nothing seems to be able to replace the invention of the wheel. Now one thousand years later a transformation has occurred: the Animaris Rhinoceros Transport.It all began with tree trunks. Heavy stones were moved by placing tree trunks underneath them. The disadvantage of this method of transporting large objects is that the tree trunks have to be constantly retrieved from the back and placed in front to continue moving the stones forward. With the arrival of the wheel that was no longer necessary. At this point the tree trunks were essentially attached to the cargo, imagine the Flintstones’ car. The tree trunks were automatically carried along. Thus the wheel is an automatic tree trunk carrier. A fantastic invention.But on soft ground, such as sand or mud, wheels are useless. It is fun to bicycle on the beach but you might as well give up trying. Walking is easier. On the beach you actually need a cart on legs, a walking cart. In this way the wheel has been reinvented. It is a wheel for all terrains: tundras, deserts, asphalt roads and fields.Thousands of years ago man began using tree trunks for transport. Thousands of years after that the wheel was invented for more efficient transport. Now a thousand years later we are entering a new phase again: the invention of the wheel for all terrains: the Animaris Rhinoceros Transport. The Animaris Rhinoceros Transport is a direct descendant of the Animari or Beach Animals.For fourteen years Theo Jansen has been working on creating a new life-form. These creatures consist of walking skeletons made out of yellow electrical tubes. These skeletons are wind powered. Over the years an evolution has occurred, which can be seen in the succeeding generations. Eventually he wants to put these animals on the beach where they will lead their own lives.The Animaris Rhinoceros Transport is an offshoot of the Beach Animal evolution. It is equipped with passenger seating and can be used for transport. As a car is a transport vehicle analogous to the horse and an airplane is a transport vehicle analogous to the bird, so is the Animaris Rhinoceros Transport a transport vehicle analogous to the Animaris (Latin name for Beach Animal).It is meant for crossing the tundra. Due to the fact that one must wait until strong wind comes from the right direction, living quarters must be made in the animal to make travel agreeable.