We generate money by serving Google text advertisements on our website GWEI.org. With this money we automatically buy Google shares via our Swiss e-banking account. We buy Google via their own advertisements! Google eats itself—but in the end we’ll own it!By establishing this model we deconstruct the new global advertisement mechanisms by turning them into a surreal click-based economic model. We inject a social virus (“let’s share their shares”) into their commercial body hidden under a polite and friendly graphical surface. Then we hand over the common ownership of Google to the GTTPcommunity —Google To The People.A bit more in detail: One of Google’s main revenue generators is the “Adsense” program. It places hundreds of thousands of little Google text-ads on websites around the world. Now we set up an Adsense account like this for our GWEI.org website. Each time someone clicks on one of our Google text-ads, we receive a micropayment and Google retains the same amount of money plus a certain percentage for its services—that’s how they make their huge profit. Google pays us monthly by check. Each time we receive enough money, we buy the next Google share (NASDAQ: GOOG, currently trades between 150-250 USD). This is the “real new economy”—users get shares just for clicking!So, how do we generate traffic and clicks? We use both a technical and a social level to reach our goal:With a sophisticated and cutting-edge browserserver tool (flash/php) we generate a steady flow of clicks. We lock the software on a limited amount of pageviews (~2500) and clicks (~200) per day. There is no difference between human clicking and this level of machine generated clicks—we are no script-kiddies but bastard artists.In addition, we use our GTTP-community to spread the word about the site and achieve pageviews & clicks. Low key social engineering through our neural.it & UBERMORGEN.COM networks can aggregate waves of inconspicuous clicks.GWEI.org/gwei/ is the web-site to show-case and unveil a total monopoly of information (Google search-engine & added services), a weakness of the new global advertisement system and the renaissance of the “new economic bubble”—“reality” is that Google is currently valued more than all Swiss Banks together (sic). Let’s open their goldmine to the people, as long as we are able to do so.