Over 50 years ago we entered a new area of research with dramatically different dimensions. Human expansion has two cardinal directions. The first is directed inwards, into the micro cosmos of life, the world of molecules, genes and chromosomes. The second leads us into the macro-cosmic space, into the ocean of planets and stars. At this threshold, the Biological Habitat project examines principles of life as possibilities of developing a new kind of biological future in the biosphere and in space.As of now, we are colonizing the universe by exporting systems created in the earth’s gravity: Euclidean geometry and Newton’s laws of motion. Though the laws of gravity determine the physics and the matter of all living organisms and are immanently incorporated into its DNA, life, especially in its embryonic state, frees itself from the influence of that gravity. It floats in a liquid space practically between the two cosmic poles: earth’s gravity and cosmic weightlessness.The complexity of the self-creation processes, the precision of the transfer of information and cyclical economy of living systems have no comparison to any artificial systems. These principles of living systems extend a great hope for creating a new biological civilization in which the transfer of energy, matter and information will be a biological progress in a steady state, and the structures, the tools and the habitats will breed as living organisms. Not technology, not computers, or astronauts, but the microscopic strains of DNA sent into the universe, with the millions of years of evolutionary experience embedded in them, will make the creation of new life in the cosmos possible.The project Made in Biosphere & Made in Space envisages the use of DNA as a universal code of the cosmos and foresees using DNA strains embedded in biological reactors that would autonomously develop into new forms of life in the biosphere and in outer space.These technologies are based on the following principles:1. Creation of spatial forms in the state of weightlessness – isopycnic systems.2. Use of biological polymers as construction material – spatium gelatum.3. Generation of forms as a pneu – biological containment.4. Creation of containment in a different scale: of a cell, a pill, a fruit, a shelter, a universe.5. Breeding spaces as bioreactors for genetic development of new life in the biosphere.