A variety of different chirping sounds of birds (theoretically possible types of birds in general, including extinct ones and those that have never existed) are simulated using a syrinx program that was developed with physical-modeling software. Every time the computer detects a response from wild birds to its “call”, the software executes an evolutionary learning program through which it gradually modifies and refines its own chirping sounds. By repeating this process, a peculiar kind of “conversation” beyond human language takes place, with both computers and birds affecting each other’s behavior. The experiment was designed to observe mutual transfigurations caused by “vocal” communication between elements of different kinds in sets of various combinations. We carried out the following three experiments in order to explore the process in detail. Experiment 1: B2C (birds to computer): Reinforced learning of vocal algorithms on a computer, using birds (four Bengalese finches) as instructors. Computers “train” vocal algorithms through the contact with wild birds, and tune their parameters for a fixed period of time. Experiment 2: C2C (computer to computer, installation): Automatic conversation between eight computers using the “language” they have learned from birds. After chirping from speakers for a fixed period of time, the voice generation software “listens” to feedback from the environment picked up by microphones, and gradually adjusts its own chirping according to the results it accumulates.Experiment 3: C2B (computer to birds): Eight computers are set up in different outdoor environments, where each of them calls together wild birds from the respective neighborhood. Alarmed by the computers’ chirping, some birds flee from the devices, while others swarm around them (=ecological filtering). The birds that gather around the computers respond and exercise their communicative ingenuity by making various sounds, as the computers’ invitations obviously strike a chord.