One of the very few real art and science works—in that it is both artistically meaningful and scientifically valid, “Silent Barrage” investigates the nature of thoughts, free will and neural dysfunction. The work focuses at the bursts of uncontrolled activity of nerve tissue, a typical characteristic of epilepsy and cultured nerve cells. “Silent Barrage” uses audience movements in, and responses to the architectural space of amplified neuronal activity to feed it back to the cultured nerve cells in an attempt to silence the barrage of electrical impulses. The scientists hope that this might help them understand better how to quieten the activity in the culture dish, and this in turn would assist in treating epilepsy. From an artistic perspective “Silent Barrage” provides an immersive and somewhat overwhelming sensorial manifestation of questions that are at the core of our understanding of the stuff that make us think. Using the presumption of free will of the audience, who chart their own path through the space, this work draws real and imaginary parallels between the person and the nerve cell. Each pole in the arrangement represents a region in the culture dish, and the movements of the individual robots correspond to the level of activity in the area. The robots’ markings on the poles hint at the continuous neuronal activity, conjuring traces of “memories” of past actions. The movement of the audience in the “Silent Barrage‘s” space is used to stimulate the culture. Nerve cells’ activity usually happens when a certain combination of stimulations reaches a threshold; the same can be said about our decision making. The navigation through “Silent Barrage” is made out of a series of incremental decisions made in an overly stimulated environment, out of the context of daily life. The nerve cells are also out of context, removed from the brain they once belonged to, they are cultured in an artificial environment, trying to make connections with the cells around them. The barrage of activity is a symptom: can pairing cells and the audience can help make “meaningful” connections that will quieten the barrage? Can it happen in a place which is nothing but quiet?