“Framework”is a kinetic light sculpture. Each of its five modules is divided into five horizontal and five vertical squared elements, establishing a grid of 5x5x5 =125 frames.Each of these frames contains another frame rotating around its central vertical axis, and this itself contains another central filled frame, a square turning around its central horizontal axis. This nested principle presents 125 static and 250 kinetic frames forming the 10m-long and 2m-high sculpture.The frames are lacquered white on one side, diffusing the light, while the other side is lacquered black, absorbing light. The motorized frames allow a black side to be turned to the white side and vice-versa. The black-white contrast achieved makes it possible to display geometric patterns and graphic signs. The 5x5 matrix of a module originates in the minimum resolution for alphanumeric displays, which thus turn the sculpture into a binary flip-board. In this way, during the day the installation proposes binary states between black / white, open / closed and static / dynamic flooded in a sonic ambiance created by 250 servo motors. The 375 frames of the installation are illuminated by LEDs on their visible edges. Each of the 375 frames can be illuminated and controlled individually. This enhances the installation with an illumination principle coherent with the kinetic one and which enhances the sculpture with a specific, luminous expression at night. At the base of the installation 50 infra-red sensors produce a horizontal sensing matrix similar to the vertical grid of the installation. Consequently, the presence and position of people in the surroundings of the installation can be tracked and the direction of their movement can be deduced. As such the framework can transcribe visitors’ presence and movement as kinetic and luminous rules. In this relation between digital media and the development of proper aesthetics the first step of the conception is the creation of kinetic light compositions following the three operating modes of the installation between a binary flip-board, a generative and an interactive structure. The second phase of the project focuses on the development of “scripts” defining which of the three different operating modes is called. AS a result, the rules about rules define the “meta-structure” of the installation, its framework. In computer programming a framework is a global structure, the information architecture, which describes the information flow and the interfaces in between different program parts. In relation to the installation the notion of “framework” defines its set of rules defining the different operating modes.