“Virtual Mirror—Rain” is a spatial intervention which senses the rain falling outside and literally mirrors it inside the building in its original form—water. There are 16 rain sensors outside, each connected to one corresponding drop maker inside. Every time a raindrop falls on a rain sensor outside, the same raindrop is synthesized and reflected back to the sky from the floor inside. The installation makes the rain “fall up” inside.In addition to the exterior rain sensors, there is one rain sensor in the middle of the installation indoors. By dripping water drops on it, the visitors are able to interact with the installation and to activate all 16 drops to fall up simultaneously from the floor into the sky.“Virtual Mirror—Rain” is a part of an ongoing series of installations entitled Virtual Holes and “Virtual Mirrors”. The series investigates the relationship between weather phenomena and the built architecture in urban environment, where our dependence on, and thus awareness of the external weather conditions is minimized.In the preceding project, “Virtual Holes”, rain, wind and sunlight are sensed, coded and then literally synthesized inside in their original forms—water, wind and light, embodying the immediate weather conditions inside. In the case of “Virtual Mirrors”, the phenomena are reflected—an active gesture directed towards the phenomena themselves. On the one hand, the interventions undo architecture, but on the other hand, they also enable the architecture to “sense” the outside weather conditions. By directly influencing the interior, everyday weather phenomena acquire metaphorical connotations, while the built interior, being directly dependent on the external weather phenomena, becomes unpredictable. This newly established relationship between the inside and the outside blurs the border between the two. The installation enables us to see the daily transitory weather phenomena as something significant, not only within the installation, but also outside.