"Gardens in the Machine" is an exploration into the areas of (digital) growth, evolution based on aesthetic choice, and our changing views of natural and artificial systems. This garden is based around a series of "cyber plants". These plants can be considered the flora of Cyberspace. They are 3-dimensional objects that have some of the biological characteristics of a real plant. It takes a group of these objects to create a garden (more a sculpture garden than a realistic flower garden). Participants take the role of a virtual bee within the garden. They can cross-pollinate the different plants and change the shape of their surroundings. Once a plant is touched, a piece of pollen will then be attached to that person and they will unknowingly pollinate the next plant that is touched. A week later, this same person or any other visiting the installation will see a different garden unfold before them. In a darkened room the installation casts light upon itself. As the minutes tick by, a light slowly moves across the top of a trellis. Under the light one can see a park bench and trellis atop a slightly raised platform. This platform is covered with sod, except for a few rocks that support a small computer that sits in front of the bench. The trellis is covered by vines, and hanging amongst these vines is a monoscopic display. The ambient sounds of a city are all that can be heard from two speakers hidden by the vines. As you approach, the sounds of the city slowly fade away, leaving the room in silence except for the dull hum of the computer. Sit down on the bench, look into the display, and there is the garden. Put your hand down on the arm rest of the bench and you will discover that it's possible to fly through the garden. Go through one of the plants, then another and you will start the process of pollination. When you stop moving, the sounds subside and as you walk away from the installation, the sounds of the city re-emerge.Gardens are places of relaxation and recuperation. They have a history in western mythology that sets them apart from nature. They are constructed, managed and manicured according to our own preferences, and yet if you ask a seasoned gardener, you will find out that they have a life all their own. Parasites invade, some species don't like the soil and others take over. This installation is an exploration of gardens "in silico". As it develops, this garden will take on a life of its own, both because of and in spite of those who involve themselves with it.Technical BackgroundHW: Pentium/i860 GraphicsSW: Custom Software