NetEscape is an online game specifically designed for Netscape Communicator 4.0+. It requires a VRML 97 plug-in such as Cosmo Player 2.0 from Cosmosoft-ware.This plug-in is included in the standard distribution of Netscape Navigator 4.0 + for Win95/NT.Not long ago, not far away, Jimmy plied the deep waters of infosea. Happy times, Jimmy swam freely, exploring different data and feeding on links. Occasionally, other creatures would try to eat Jimmy. But they soon gave up and Jimmy would celebrate his escape with a loud "yahoo!". Survival in infosea depended on being quick and alert. And that's exactly what Jimmy was. But soon a new threat emerged, a danger more severe than a power outage. It was a virus and its name was Billy.The virus had only one goal -take over infosea. Billy gave the other creatures two choices, surrender or die.Billy the virus has almost succeeded. Most creatures are dead or infected. Jim my has survived the onslaught so far, but is weak and close to surrender. Will you help him? How?Feed Jimmy with links. You can find them everywhere in infosea.The more you find, the stronger Jimmy will be, the more likely he will escape the virus. Find enough links and Jimmy will escape the deadly Billy forever...Rules of the GameThe rules are simple. After the game has started you have to surf the Internet by following hyperlinks in the browser window. You are only allowed to follow hyperlinks. Do not attempt to submit a search request or use an html form to escape, this will end the game. Whenever the page is completely loaded, the total number of points will be added to your score. If you follow a hyperlink before the page is loaded you will receive a time penalty. You are also not allowed to revisit a page. Any page revisit will result in a time penalty and will make Billy stronger. Occasional skirmishes will occur between Billy and Jimmy, depending on your score and number of penalties incurred. Billy succeeds, and Jimmy will be trapped in a cage; a fate worse than deletion. That's it.