The art and cultural project Radio Internationale Stadt was initiated in 1996 by Thomax Kaulmann in conjunction with the "Internationale Stadt" and has been freely accessible on the Internet in the version 2.0 since June 98 at .What is Radio Internationale Stadt?Radio Internationale Stadt ("Radio International City"), or RadiolS for short, is not radio in the classical media-theoretical sense. Rather it involves an open Internet-based audio archive system.The consumer/ recipient can play the contents they are interested in whenever they want to and may add their own contents as well. Not only musicians, DJs and artists, but also independent radio editing teams, labels or radio play producers may themselves become content providers / contributors. This means that RadiolS is not a one-to-many medium, but rather many to many. In this way, the software-supported infrastructure of RadiolS corresponds to the open structure and the internationality of the carrier medium of the Internet. RadiolS provides a dynamic presentation platform for independent artists and other people involved in culture.Radio Internationale Stadt - An Infrastructure for ContributorsRadiolS offers contributors a freely accessible infrastructure free of charge for developing, maintaining and organizing a common audio archive. In addition to providing contributors with a possibility for archiving their own audio contents, there is also a live channel made available to each contributor. The contributors maintain and administer their own data using a password-protected, easy to operate editing system. This supports the uploading of the audio data, for instance, assigning dynamic subtitles along with key words, defining the time period for which the data should remained stored, and creating links with supported text files. The topics offered by RadiolS are largely developed dynamically and currently comprise the following areas:- music- radio plays- poetry- performances - culture features - political features - news. There are currently 28 contributors, who regularly supply RadiolS with contents. In addition to German providers, these contributors are from Austria, Spain, Great Britain, the Netherlands, Croatia and Estonia.Radio Internationale Stadt -Audio Archive and Live Radio for RecipientsRecipients all over the world may freely access the archives and live channels via the Internet at no charge. Using topic menus or full-text search, "visitors" are able to find the desired audio contents, and assemble and save these in their own "track lists". In addition, users also have an opportunity to add so-called annotations or commentaries on individual pieces or "broadcasts", which are then linked with these and may be called up by other recipients.To listen to the audio files, the recipient needs, in addition to a conventional Web-browser (e.g. NS 3.0, IE 4.0), the commonly available player-software RealAudio. No other software is required. In just a short period, RadiolS has already found a loyal international audience.