To explore the substance of beautyI have a simple question:What is beauty, if fine art is the representation of beauty? Since this idea is confused by multiple points of view, I want to promote the beauty of nature.A spectacular sunset or a fascinating coastline seems to hypnotize people for a long time, so people can feel the beauty of nature.What do we perceive as beauty in nature? If this were a work of fine art, it would be the artist’s personality, but this beauty is not made by anyone.Why do we feel nature’s beauty, if this is not its purpose?I have an answer to this: It is relation and reflection. Objects in nature are not always beautiful, there are many dirty objects in the environment as well.Yet all of nature (even the dirty object) is very important to beauty.Take a sunset scene like in La Jolla, for example. The elements of a beautiful sunset include the sun, sea, sky, etc. If the sun is beautiful, we should notice that it is always beautiful, but in fact, we don’t think so. At noon we wear sunglasses to protect our eyes from the sunshine. So the sun is not what makes a sunset beautiful. It is the same with the sea and everything else.What makes a sunset beautiful, then? It is not beautiful because the scene contains beautiful objects, but because all the elements relate to and reflect on one another.That color of the clouds was made by sunshine filtered through the air, reflecting on the cloud and the surface of the sea. Thus the beauty that we feel is the complex relation and reflection of each simple object.This is the substance of the beauty of nature.We call it “harmony.”Remarkably, this is composed simply of refrains of objects.This is what leads me to the basic structure of beauty.Network Communicate Kaleidoscope is a virtual space accessible via the Internet.People connect to a void world as “particles”, where they enjoy chatting and interacting with others. After they disconnect, their remnant particle interacts individually with other particles’behavior, reflecting the activity of all those who have ever connected with the virtual space.The theme of the project is to explore and create beautiful images like a kaleidoscope of “clustering fireflies.” Yet the images can be made by anonymous personalities beyond the artist’s. In this context, the user/joiner contributes to and knows the substance of the art.