"polar" is an interactive multimedia installation that makes it possible to experience the data flow in global and local networks both sensuously and cognitively.Artistic Concept and Technical RealizationThe work "polar" could be described as an interactive multimedia installation, but its complexity in a way defies this classification.  We envisioned the 7m X 7m X 4m, totally connected and tactile space as a complex tactile matrix interface, that enables the visitor to experience the flow of data in the global and local networks in a completely immersive, yet cognitive way. The work was inspired by the notion of the cognitive "ocean" as described in Stanislaw Lem's and Andrey Tarkovsky's "Solaris".  The initial conceptual equation was:  ocean = matrix.  The main outline of the work was based on the creation of two software and hardware "engines", the so-called "polar engine" (with adjacent "poles", "polar", "dictionary" and "knowledge base") and the "change engine" (with adjacent "traceroute visualiser", which consisted of two separate displays). The first was envisioned as the input-analysis and construction zone, the second as the output-syntheses-experience zone. These zones were defined both in conceptual-software and hardware senses and also in the environmental sense.  We have defined a "zone", in which the biological and physical was directly interacting with the abstract-immaterial.  One main question was posed in this process: How do we construct a cognitive and tactile experience of the seamless and near-abstract matrix with the analysis/construction transformation of it included in the process?  Basically, we wanted to create an interface between the human body and senses and the matrix, which would, not only through the activities, but even just through the sheer presence of the humans, already transform the structure of the matrix that is observed/experienced and of the physical space that is inhabited during this process, as well.The spaceThe »polar« space is a 7m X 7m X 4m white, 3-dimensional physical space, which includes 4 projection surfaces, 7 speakers, a 3D high resolution tracking system, a microorganism growth module, a wave patterning water vibration module, 2 so-called "field" displays - touch input modules - and 7 "pol" zones.  The whole construction was modular and also included the ceiling, where a complex system of 32 lights controlled by the main engine of the project also played an active role in the tactile and sensorial experience. One of the main experiential goals of the space design was to minimize the presence of clearly discernible technological elements within it, on one hand, and on the other to approach it from the pragmatic viewpoint of an all-encompassing "human-machine" interface.