Epiphyte Chamber explores a new generation of interactive and responsive spaces, raising fundamental questions about how architecture might behave in the future. Might future buildings begin to know and care about us? Might they start, in very primitive ways, to become alive? The work is conceived as an “epiphyte,” an aerial plant species that can grow without the support of soil. Across each floating island, densely interwoven structures and delicate canopies made of thousands of lightweight digitally fabricated components are drawn together in nearly synchronized breathing and whispers. Audiences walk into highly sensual, intimate sculptural spaces that support small clusters of activity interlinking into larger gathering areas. The installation was part of the inaugural Aleph Exhibition at the Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art in Seoul, Korea, November 12, 2013, to March 14, 2014. Epiphyte Chamber features interactive lighting systems and kinetic mechanisms that use dense arrays of microprocessors and sensors. The work contemplates the ability of an environment to be near-living, to stimulate intimate evocations of compassion with viewers through artificial intelligence and mechanical empathy. Like any ecology and any material system, these environments are partial, reacting only to certain excitements and evincing awareness only of certain things. The viewer will become aware of subtle impacts: air, moving around the body, perhaps changes in surrounding magnetic fields that one disturbs as they pass. The work offers dimensions scaled close to the human body, revealing subtle phenomena and complex organizations within scales that work progressively outward from hand and body-based dimensions toward forms of small groups and collective meeting spaces.Epiphyte Chamber has evolved from Philip Beesley’s Hylozoic Series, where hylozoism refers to the ancient belief that all matter has life. The new installation offers a deeper exploration of the interpersonal and collective physical exchanges between audience and installation through investigations into human-scale gesture and auras. This pursuit points to practical work, and also an examination of the psychology of encountering and working within an interactive environment.