Clouds is an interactive, generative, documentary that allows the viewer to explore different perspectives at the intersection of code and culture. Filmed using a new 3D cinema format called RGBD and created entirely with open-source software, Clouds uses a data-driven “story engine” to present an endless, ever-changing conversation.The interview subjects in Clouds are an intergenerational community of more than 40 artists, designers, hackers and thinkers. They discuss the challenges of developing new forms of expression that resonate at a deeper human level. The documentary captures the story of collaboratively inventing open-source tools that form the foundation of a global creative culture. Interview subjects include founders of free creative coding platforms, such as Casey Reas and Zach Lieberman, as well as critical perspectives from thinkers like Bruce Sterling and Régine Debatty.Clouds is not a linear film, but a real-time executable that generates sequences of dialog based on interactive input. Each of the interviews has been edited into individual fragments and richly tagged. An algorithm then leaps from clip to clip, creating new conversations on the fly, while preserving continuity of ideas and themes. Viewers use gesture and spatial interaction metaphors to chart a course through the rhizomatic content space.Developed entirely with openFrameworks, the Clouds interviews are intercut with illustrative “visual systems”: real-time graphic modules contributed by leading computational artists and designers. Clouds also features a completely generative score, whose timbres and motifs are governed by the story engine as well.Clouds is presented as an interactive installation where visitors select an initial question to seed the story engine with their topic interest. They are then presented with a stream of interviews and interactive visualizations illustrating a response to the topic. Interaction is done through gesture using a Kinect and a large screen, or through gaze when using an Oculus Rift virtual reality head-mounted display.The list of interview subjects includes Aaron Koblin, Andres Colubri, Bruce Sterling, Casey Reas, Chris Sugrue, Damian Stewart, Daniel Shiffman, Diederick Huijbers, Elliot Woods, Fernanda Viegas, Golan Levin, Greg Borenstein, Javier Fadul, Jen Lowe, Jer Thorp, Jesse Louis-Rosenberg, Jessica Rosenkrantz, Joel Lewis, John Maeda, Josh Nimoy, Julia Kaganskiy, Julian Oliver, Karolina Sobecka, Karsten Schmidt, Kevin Slavin, Kyle Chayka, Kyle McDonald, Lauren McCarthy, LIA, Lindsay Howard, Marcus Wendt, Marius Watz, Martin Wattenberg, Paola Antonelli, Patricio Gonzalez-Vivo, Philip Whitfield, Rachel Binx, Ramsey Nasser, Regine Debatty, Shantell Martin, Sofy Yuditskaya, Theo Watson, Vera Glahn and Zach Lieberman Clouds also features original visualizations contributed through code commissions by Shantell Martin, Zach Lieberman, Nervous System, Marius Watz, Karolina Sobecka, Casey Reas, Satoru Higa and Josh Nimoy