DNA presents a rather striking tension between the preservation of life and its disappearance, also found within a wide range of other areas such as religion, performance documentation or biobanking. However, DNA’s capacity to preserve living matter is often understood as rather trivial naturalism disregarding many imaginary, narrative, performative and ontological contexts linked with it. We salvage DNA in order to compose mnemonic devices that diversify cultural memory.  In our projects DNA stemming from biological relics of “knowing” animals which have been key figures in relevant scenarios within the arts, sciences, philosophy and genetics, i.e. the DNA from Beuys’ hare, Freud’s Chow-Chow, Derrida’s cat, as well as from a laboratory worm. After having engineered a specifically responding synthetic gene from the relics’ and a living host’s DNA, we program interfaces which activate the synthetic gene as an ecopolitical agent. Beyond their historical routines, the synthetic genes now act as living money, as genetic timers, or as spoken microflora, which resist and subvert the commodification of the relic as well as its field of origin.In Hare’s Blood + we questioned the exploding prices for artworks incorporating animal relics and recalled visions of a counter-economy as emphasized by Joseph Beuys. For Beuys, the hare’s blood embodied a spiritual medium between life and death, capable of navigating between times and contexts. Beuys even explained pictures to a dead hare. For us the blood’s intrinsic significance together with the multiple’s reproducibility fulfilled the criteria of token money as well as DNA.For our project we opened one of the two hundred multiples in which Joseph Beuys had shrink-wrapped volatile hare’s blood. Cooperating with molecular labs we inserted parts of the blood’s catalase gene, which protects against stress and ageing, into living yeast cells, referencing the rhizomatic structures of fungi. We auctioned this transgenic Beuysian creature, which did not previously exist either in nature or in culture, at the Biofiction Festival in Vienna’s Museum of Natural History.Through the expression of the Beuys’ hares catalase gene, the programmed interface caused the size of the bids at auction to affect the growth of the yeast. When the actual bids in the room diverged too widely from the streamed livestock share prices, the protecting activity of the synthetic gene declined. Depending on their bids, the spectators saw the artwork aging or even decomposing, with their commercial interest governing its liveness. This ecospecies is capable of genetically processing data in time with Beuys’ economic visions so as to negotiate its existence on the art market. It is now neither merely an object of art nor a symbol for acting out animalism, but instead its genes have become informationally engaged in complex decisions about itself.When they transfer the historical connection between the animal’s genes and its habitat to the connection between the synthetic gene and an immersive audience, the living recording devices reframe history and make the animal’s past and its present mimic one another. This transference brings forward incomplete memory traces, advances parallel histories, and drafts speculative fictions. The relic thereby becomes an action, emerging from a combination of genetic discursive and immersive factors. Thus DNA engineering eventually becomes a non-trivial task of bringing the past back to life for an unpredictable future.