Pathfinder is a visual language to initiate inspiration for choreography. The tool generates and projects abstract shapes into space in order to stimulate the dancers’ exploration of new body movements and overcome the boundaries of trained habits. It is a digital approach to the conceptual research of dance. Pathfinder inspires dancers to explore physical language to forge unique expressions and configurations. It is a generative tool that conceives visual inspirations for the conceptual research of body movements. The system produces logical transitions between geometric shapes to guide and inspire the user to compliment continuously transforming human states. Choreographers can adjust certain parameters of the algorithmsuch as speed, complexity, or the geometry of objectsin order to delineate a desired type of animation without the ability to define the exact output. The algorithm generates graphic patterns to stimulate the creativity of dancers and open new perspectives. By interpreting the vast number of morphing geometries, the artist feels guided and inspired to open new perspectives towards physical possibilities.Choreographic development often implicates the spontaneous embodiment of visual imagination. William Forsythe’s Improvisation Technologies for example, teach the creation of new motion patterns by imagining and manipulating geometric objects in space. Inspired by this concept, the smooth transition of Pathfinder’s visual language between configurations creates a seamless path for the dancer to follow from point, to line, to plane.As a response to limitations in dance, Pathfinder aims to be instrumental in the creative process of choreographic development. Projected into space, Pathfinder becomes a digital environment to stimulate the artists’ creativity and enrich choreographic productions. The visual language of Pathfinder consists of fundamental geometric shapes and transitions to illustrate an abstraction of body states, motion, and causalities. The algorithm creates a vast number of geometries morphing in a sequential and logical manner.Pathfinder expands the idea of creative collaboration by integrating an intelligent digital entity into the artistic process. The tool fosters an innovative dialogue between humans and technology to explore boundaries and creative possibilities. As a new development in dance and choreography, Pathfinder aims to explore a sustainable culture to encourage the creative abilities of new generations of digital artists, dancers, and choreographers.