Glaciers have been constantly retracting since last century as a consequence of global warming. Over the past 50 years the ice mass in Antarctica has diminished significantly. The overwhelming time scale of this development is unbelievable - it took thousands and millions of years for the glaciers to grow, but they are being destroyed at an alarming rate.Glaciator is an art installation placed in Antarctica, composed of solar robots that help to compact and crystallize the snow turning into ice and then adhering to the glacier mass. As the melting of ice on glaciers is global warming’s most alarming effect, the mission of these robots is to help and accelerate the ice formation process on glaciers, allowing them to grow with the addition of snow turned into ice, regaining the mass they have lost as a result of the thaw.In places like Antarctica, where snow plays such an important role in everyday life, the native language has several different words for the term "snow". In this context, the word ‘firn’ refers to ‘last year’s snow’ - a partially compact snow remaining from past winters and recrystallized to form a denser substance than fresh snow. Frequently found under the snow accumulated on a glacier’s head, it is an intermediate state between snow and glacier ice, before it becomes part of a glacier. Glaciator works by compacting the snow as it steps on it, thus becoming a "Firn-Maker".The Glaciator’s ultimate purpose is to raise awareness about climate change, the melting of the ice, and the consequences for the planet. “We must do something even if we don’t know the results because if we do nothing we already know the results”. Following this concept, Glaciators expect to encourage scientists and technologists to explore and take the initiative in order to promote a different approach, “to think outside the box”, with the objective to find new sources of inspiration for solving global issues.Glaciators are awkward in their movements but steady in their quests, and are a symbol of the utopian ideal - a concept applied to all undertakings that seem impossible. Yet throughout history, by the sheer determination and perseverance of the human will, impossible dreams such as this may hold the key for our future and the preservation of the species. Glaciators went to Antarctica in a ship where artists shared the experience with scientists, philosophers, architects, and curators and we were all in the same ship.  Today, we are 7.5 Gyga people in the same boat, our planet earth.